{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17900\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1446\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 WHAT IS WASTE?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-4
\'93Trash\'94 is the colloquial term for what is old, used up, and unwanted, everything that no longer holds any personal value or function for us. The act of throwing things away is often perceived as unpleasant, repulsive, and bothersome. As a result, the pragmatic routine of disposal receives little conscious attention.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1446\sl440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-8707\sl440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The problem becomes visible when waste is carelessly discarded in public spaces and the natural environment. This process of improper disposal is known as littering. Littering has significant ecological, aesthetic, and economic consequences. Properly disposed waste, by contrast, is largely invisible: it does not disturb, and thus escapes our perception. This invisibility makes it difficult for individuals to grasp how much waste they actually generate.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1446\sl440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-8167\sl440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In contemporary society, a selective perception has developed that causes both waste production and disposal to occur largely unconsciously. The bachelor project \'93Binvisible\'94 addresses this issue by making the processes of disposal and the resulting volumes of waste visible. In doing so, it indirectly confronts users with the question: \'93What is waste?\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1446\sl440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-8082\sl440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 It is crucial to recognize, however, that the responsibility for tackling the waste problem does not rest solely with consumers. Proper disposal into waste containers is only one part of the solution. The problem must be addressed at its source. This requires binding global regulations and measures aimed at reducing waste production itself.}